The Joe Rogan experience. Within sex research in particular,
I feel like sex research was the, the Kerry in the coal mine,
because we saw this coming decades ago in that one,
professor Michael Bailey at Northwestern university,
there's been a long history.
That's ugly between sex researchers and transgender activists and Michael Bailey
wrote a book. Uh, I think it was 2003 that really enraged some activist.
And I have to say, trans activists don't speak for all transgender people.
I haven't many trans people.
Who've reached out to me over the years telling me that they actually agree with
me, but I feel activists tend to be the most vocal.
They tend to be the most aggressive.
And so after researchers saw what happened to Mike, I mean, I, in the book,
I talk about the things that they did to him.
Some of them were very unethical and really,
they really tried to ruin him professionally and,
and his personal reputation as well. And so after that people said, well,
you know, I'm not touching the subject because it's just not worth it.
And so anyone who has tried to counter trans activist since then also face
really serious repercussions. So I think that's been part of it.
And I think also with a lot more broadly with this ideology that students are
being taught this and they graduate. They go out into the real world,
they get jobs. And a lot of people, even five years ago,
I would say dismissed a lot of this ideology, especially around gender.
They would say that's only an academia.
That is not something that's actually going to affect me in my real life.
But here it is now, it's it affects everybody. There's no way that you,
this is not affecting you.
I think it's just a question of how much do you pay attention to it? You know,
people send me messages. They tell me about when they have training at work.
They tell me about their kids' education. When I get the book,
I don't just talk about transitioning children.
I talk about the idea that gender is not a social construct.
It is not a spectrum. I talk about how it,
there is a relation between gender identity and sexual orientation,
which you're also supposed to not say apparently, um,
I talk about sex differences and these are all things that are considered taboo.
And I don't understand why I don't understand why we can't just have a
fact-based conversation.
And we're not saying that this information justifies discrimination against
people. In fact, I'm always very clear to say that it doesn't. Well.
I think this is one of the reasons why you're so important because you're
obviously a very intelligent kind person and you're not a hateful person.
And you're, you're,
you're not in any way discriminating your looking at this as a
scientist.
And you looking at this as a person who is very frustrated by the fact that you
can't discuss science,
particularly when it comes to really critical aspects of people's lives,
which is sex and gender.
I would love to talk to you about what you just had though,
when you said that there's no, not a spectrum. When it comes to gender,
that's a common narrative. So what do you, what do you mean by that? Like,
there's not a spectrum.
So there are two genders. And so gender for 99% of us,
our biological sex is our gender. Biological sex is determined by gametes,
which are either eggs or sperm. So there are no intermediate gametes.
So gender is either male or female. So th this,
I do not think invalidates the existence of intersex people or transgender
people. I think we can advocate for equal rights for those communities.
We don't have to reconceptualize what gender or sex are. And,
and also for intersex people in particular,
most of them want to live within the binary.
They want to live as either male or female. They don't want,
they don't want gender or sex to be collapsed into, uh,
a kaleidoscope or a galaxy or whatever else. I mean,
this is what's being published in scientific papers.
Now they refer to gender as quite literally a galaxy. So, I mean,
it's ridiculous.
Pretty crazy, not just a spectrum,
but a galaxy 250 billion types. Is that what it's like?
Like all the stars. That's crazy. Um, when you, when you say there's,
there's just two genders, first of all, that's getting enraged people, right?
But second of all, you will,
you can see that there are very feminine men and very masculine women.
And if though, if that is true, what, what accounts for that?
It goes back to the prenatal environment.
So I definitely don't deny that they're gender atypical people. I, as a woman,
I look very feminine, but I'm actually very gender atypical.
I've always felt more masculine. And even to this day,
I feel much more masculine than feminine, but hold on. So you feel masculine,
that's crazy. You would never know, oh my.
God, you don't even seem remotely masculine. Like what,
what determines that you are masculine?
I would say, well, from a young age, I'd always been more like boys.
I looked like a boy when I was younger. I've always just,
my friends were always boys and guys, and I've always felt,
I've just always felt more like a man. Just like you feel like a man, right?
I it's it's gender is one of those things in terms of how we describe it is so
personal.
And that's why I feel it's so important to focus on the evidence because without
that, what do you really have? So it, what, it really,
what it comes down to testosterone exposure in the womb. Right. But how are you,
how are you like a man,
if you see, well, how can I say this?
It's hard for me to not go in and digging into personal examples. Right.
But I would just say, I've always been more like boys,
if you look at how boys behave and how girls behave,
I've always been more like the boys.
Like in like your interests. And.
You're in my behavior. I'm into fighting. Right.
I run the martial artist when I was young, especially.
So I always get into fist fights with the boys and I would actually win.
That's hilarious. Cause you seem very feminine to me. That's very odd.
They will always say that to me. Yeah, for sure.
So this spectrum that does exist,
even though there are two genders, in your opinion,
a male gender and a female gender.
Well, it's not, in my opinion. It's not in my opinion. It is.
Okay. But that, okay, scientifically, right. There's two genders,
but this is obviously a hot button subject, right? If just there's two genders,
we'll get you canceled.
Oh, I know. I know we can talk about the nonbinary movement.
Cause I'm actually very concerned in terms of what that movement is about.
And I am all for listening. I'll use whatever pronoun someone wants me to use.
I'll be respectful.
My issue is when people again say that this is backed by science when it isn't
and when we're also not talking about what it's actually about.
So for a lot of people who are identifying as non-binary,
I think it's coming from a place of sexism in society or homophobia.
So a lot of people who identify as non binary,
especially among people who are born male,
they will normally come out as gay as a gay man and then decide to be non binary
or for people who were born female. Many of them don't,
they feel a lot of discomfort around their bodies,
the changes they experience being a woman.
They don't like the attention that they're getting.
They don't want to be sexualized for some of them. They get,
they have exposure to pornography at a young age. And they,
they think that that is actually what sex is going to be like.
And they think I don't want that. So how do I avoid that? Well, if I be,
if I become something other than a woman, I will not have to experience this.
And no one is saying to them, you know, number one pornography,
I'm definitely not. Anti-porn, you know,
I used to write for a very prominent men's magazine. So I, uh,
have no issue with that.
I just think we have to be able to have a
conversation saying, you know, if you feel different,
that doesn't mean you shouldn't be a woman or with regards to pornography it's
it's entertainment.
So that's not what sex is going to be like when you get there.